W-14927671  Pdk ga branch gr (#464)
mulesoft/docs-gateway: pdk/1.0/modules/ROOT/pages/policies-pdk-create-project.adoc

= Creating a New Project
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]
:imagesdir: ../assets/images

To begin developing a new custom policy with the Policy Development Kit (PDK), generate a new custom policy project.

To create a new project, complete the following tasks:

. <<before-you-begin>>
. <<create-a-new-policy-project>>
. <<setup-the-pdk-build-environment>>
. Review <<project-structure>>

[[before-you-begin]]
== Before You Begin

Before you can create a custom policy project, ensure that you have installed all xref:policies-pdk-prerequisites.adoc[PDK prerequisites].

[[create-a-new-policy-project]]
== Create a New Policy Project

> To create a custom policy project, run the PDK CLI `create` command, replacing `<my-custom-policy>` with the name of your new policy:

Reviewer: Is this supposed to be a numbered step? Are all the action items in this section supposed to be steps?

The `groupID` of the new policy is the ID of the organization configured in Anypoint CLI.

The `create` command supports the following flags:

[%header%autowidth.spread,cols="a,a,a,a"]
|===
| Flag | Default Value | Required | Description
| `--name=<value>` or `-n` | N/A | Yes | Name of the new policy.
| `--description=<value>` or `-d` | N/A | No | Description of the new policy.
| `--output-dir=<value>` of `-o` | `assetID` | No | Directory the new policy is created in. +
If the directory does not exist, it is created. If no directory is specified, the directory name is the policy `assetID`.
| `--version=<value>` | `1.0.0` | No | Version of the new policy. +
The version format is `<major-release>.<minor-release>.<patch-release>`.
| `--group-id=<value>` | N/A | No | Organization ID of the organization that owns the policy. +
For additional information about this flag, see xref:policies-pdk-troubleshooting.adoc#group-id-error[Troubleshooting Group ID].
|===

[[setup-the-pdk-build-environment]]

> == Setup the PDK Build Environment

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Set Up the PDK Build Environment
```

After you <<create-a-new-policy-project, create a new policy project>>, you must run the `setup` command:

[source,ssh]
----
make setup
----

[[project-structure]]

> == Project Structure

Reviewer: For tutorials, "==" level sections need to be imperative tasks.

> After running the setup command, the policy's root directory contains the following directories and files shown in the directory tree: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After running the `setup` command, the policy's root directory contains the following directories and files shown in the directory tree: 
```

├─ Makefile     # Provides all the callable actions required during the policy development lifecycle
├─ Cargo.toml   # Rust language standard file that contains the metadata required to build the policy
└─.project.yaml # Project manifest used by PDK
----

=== target/ and definition/target/

There are two separate `target` directories:

* `definition/target/`: Contains the policy asset definition published to Exchange.
* `target/`: Contains the files for the policy's Exchange asset implementation and the output of the project build.

Both target directories and their content are included in the `.gitignore` file. You must compile the targets on each individual devices using the `make build` command. For example, if you develop a policy as part of the team, your team can publish the policy and its source code to a remote repository, but each team member must build the target on their device to work with the policy.

=== definition/

The `definition` directory contains the `gcl.yaml` file that defines the policy's metadata and the configuration properties.

To configure the `gcl.yaml` file, see xref:policies-pdk-create-schema-definition.adoc[].

=== Cargo.toml

> Custom policies for Flex Gateway are developed in the Rust Programming language and compiled to a WebAssembly binary. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Custom policies for Flex Gateway are developed in the Rust programming language and compiled to a WebAssembly binary. 
```

The `Cargo.toml` is the Rust project manifest. Its `[package]` section contains the basic information about the policy implementation. The version specified in `Cargo.toml` matches the policy asset version. You can manage the policy version by editing the version number in `Cargo.toml`. The version follows the format `<major-version>.<minor-version>.<patch-version>`.

=== src/

The `src` directory contains the policy's source code:

> * `lib.rs`: Contains a set of methods that implement the behavior of the policy. These methods are the API our development kit offers to implement custom policies behavior. For additional information about these methods, see xref:policies-pdk-configure-features.adoc[]. For complete policy examples, see xref:policies-pdk-policy-templates.adoc[].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `lib.rs`: Contains a set of methods that implement the behavior of the policy. PDK includes these methods to implement custom policies behavior. For additional information about these methods, see xref:policies-pdk-configure-features.adoc[]. For complete policy examples, see xref:policies-pdk-policy-templates.adoc[].
```

* `generated/config.rs` and `generated/mod.rs`: Auto-generated modules that make the policy configuration, as defined in the `gcl.yaml`, available for use in the `lib.rs` and any of the policy source files.

=== Makefile

> The Makefile contains all the callable actions, `make` commands, required for the policy development lifecycle. Execute all `make` commands at the root level of your custom policy directory directory:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Makefile contains all the callable actions, such as `make` commands, required for the policy development lifecycle. Execute all `make` commands at the root level of your custom policy directory directory:
```

* `make setup`: Installs the PDK internal dependencies for the rest of the Makefile goals. 
+
For more information about setting up your project, see <<setup-the-pdk-build-environment>>.
* `make build-asset-files`: Generates all the policy asset files required to build, execute, and publish the policy. This command also updates the `config.rs` source code file with the latest configurations defined in the `gcl.yaml` file. 
+
For more information about compiling a policy, see xref:policies-pdk-compile-policies.adoc[].
+
* `make build`: Runs the `make build-asset-files` command and compiles the WebAssembly binary of the policy. 
+
For more information about compiling a policy, see xref:policies-pdk-compile-policies.adoc[]. 
* `make run`: Provides a simple way to execute the current build of the policy in a Docker containerized environment. 
+
For more information about running and debugging your policy, see xref:policies-pdk-debug-local.adoc[].
* `make test`: Executes the tests contained in `tests/` by using the testing framework provided by PDK.
+
For more information about testing your policy, see xref:policies-pdk-integration-tests.adoc[].

> * `make publish`: Publishes the policy asset in Exchange. 

Reviewer: Relevant only to Connected Mode?

+
For more information about publishing policies in Exchange, see xref:policies-pdk-publish-policies.adoc[].

> * `make release`: Releases the policy asset in Exchange. 

Reviewer: Relevant to Connected Mode only?

+

> For more information about releasing policies in Exchange, see xref:policies-pdk-publish-policies.adoc[].

Reviewer: Connected Mode only?
